Meet the Dreamwalker
====================

.. admonition:: Chapter overview

   Arrive in Ssillissoz.  Have an opportunity to make a good or bad
   impression.  Meet the Dreamwalker.  Learn what she knows about
   Jarn, it's inhabitants and the Godslayer.  Meet a traeki ring
   breeder and get offered a language parasite.


On the road into town
---------------------

The dock is a couple miles from Ssillissoz, which is on a river bank
some distance from the ravine.  Heading down the road, the party will
soon hear some noise from up ahead, around the bend.  This gives the
party time to decide whether to hide or stay in sight.

Coming down the road, fishing rods in hand, are three juveniles |nd|
two urs females and a hoon male.  Each is the equivalent of a
teenager.  Each is wearing age-appropriate clothing |nd| the Jarn
equivalent of t-shirts and jeans for their species.

Remember that this is the first time the party is encountering urs or
hoon.

The players will not understand what the kids are saying, of course,
although a casting of comprehend languages will reveal that they are
discussing something funny a quehen youth did in school the previous
day.  This should be phrased in a way that is ambiguous and open to
interpretation by the party.

A DC 15 INT check will reveal that the creatures are speaking a
language.  A roll above 20 will reveal that the two types of creatures
|nd| who sound `very` different |nd| are speaking the same language.

An attempt to speak to the kids will result in them making noises that
are probably laughter, followed by them waving and heading on their
way.

An attempt to fight the kids will succeed without much effort.  They
are juvenile commoners.  The party will mop the floor.
Congratulations, the party are now child-murderers.  This is a fact
that Swift Current will notice in an hour's time when walks to town.

In short, this is an opportunity for an overly aggressive party to
make it nearly impossible to get any kind of help or information in
Ssillissoz. 


Arriving in town
----------------

Ssillissoz is a fairly normal D&D town.  There is a town square, an
open-air market selling food and wares, various shops and taverns,
various inns equipped to handle the various species, all the normal
industries (forge and metal working, saw mill and wood working,
tannery and leather working, and so on).

Of course, the town will be a rather weird site with no human or
human-like people.  The players will not see traeki at first (they
tend to be less mobile), but plenty of the other three species.

The town fronts onto a lake which is fed by and empties into a river.
This is an artificial lake created by quehen to provide their own
living space.  Nicely appointed burrows line the shore and small
islands can be seen just off shore |nd| presumably connected by
tunnels and underwater paths to the burrows on shore.

Hoon and urs live in dwellings that are much more familiar to the
party members, although all built to accommodate the specific needs of
those two species.

The party will attract attention.  Once it becomes clear that they do
not speak Jarn common, a friendly quehen will saunter up
and telepathically ask if the party is in town to visit Anya.  The
quehen will send the party, lead by the quehen's child, i.e. a smaller
starfish-crab, to a house down a small alley.  

At the house, they will find a smiling half-elf woman sitting in a
rocking chair on the porch sewing clothing.  Anya is a friendly sort
eager to chat with the party.  

During the ensuing conversation, urs, quehen, and hoon children will
interrupt to chat, take items from a bowl of sweets, hang out, crawl
into her lap (or a players) for a cuddle ... kid stuff.  

Anya's information for the party:

+ The traeki (a race the party has not yet met) have been murmuring
  about sales of chemicals to a group of people who look like Anya
  who are taking their purchases out into the Blight.
+ This seems like a lead because the chemical purchases in question
  are hard to understand outside of acanic and mechanical context, so
  could be related to the Godslayer.
+ Traeki being traeki, it is not quite clear which individual has been
  dealing with these apparent out-worlders.
+ The best bet, though, is a famously reclusive stack maked In Go Tin
  Pok that lives in a tower on the side of a mesa off in the direction
  of the Fireflow Mountains.
+ The best way to get to In Go's home is to take the next train going
  in that direction, get off at Galooon, and make your way through
  Bluest Grove.  (She will explain what a train is.)

After conveying all this information, Anya will offer to spend a few
weeks teaching the party Jarn common and teaching them how to
understand the different modes of vocalization.  However ... she also
can offer a shortcut.

Language parasite
-----------------

The shortcut is to visit a local traeki breeder who has been working a
tool for universal communication.  This local, Oon For is his name, is
an expert at breeding rings with a kind of telepathic specialization
related to language comprehension.  Traeki with these rings become
extraordinarily capable linguists, able to understand and speak all
kinds of languages.  However, since the vast majority of people on
Jarn |nd| including any traeki with a speech ring |nd| speak Jarn
common, not many traeki opt to incorporate Oon For's language rings.

Being a tinkerer by nature, Oon For has subsequently engineered his
rings to have a capability of imparting genetic aspects of their
telepathic/linguistic abilities on adelphoparasites specially bred to
infect these rings and to adopt similar capabilities.  These
adelphoparasites are excreted as long worms and are able to survive as
mutualist parasites on non-traeki hosts.

For folk such as the party members, this worm infect the ear canal and
partially slither through the eustacian tube and into the hosts
throat.  Once established, it would grant understanding and speaking
ability to the host of any spoken language available to the original
ring.  In this case, that would include Jarn common, ursic, hoonish,
and quehen.  In short, mutual parasite == on-moon language
comprehension. 

The players will probably be skeptical of a parasite invading their
heads.  That nervousness is the fun part.  There is no downside to the
process, only a benevolent mutual parasite.  Anya will say as much.

Oon For is a commoner.

Oon For, 1st level traeki ring breeder

:Armor class:   10
:Hit Points:    8
:Speed:         0

========== ========== ========== ========== ========== ==========
 **STR**    **DEX**    **CON**    **INT**    **WIS**    **CHA**
 10         10         10         12         15         16
========== ========== ========== ========== ========== ==========


:Senses: Passive Perception 12, advantage on perception if involving smell
:Languages: Jarn common, traeki pheromonic communication
:Challenge: 1/2
:Proficiency Bonus: +2



Consequence of parasite decision
--------------------------------

If the players opt to accept the parasite |nd| communication problems
solved.   Anya will take them to the traeki's nursery.  This is a
weird mud-brick building down by the lakeside.  The interior of Oon
For's home has a sort of catwalk around the perimeter of the round
building.  The entire center of the building looks like a compost
pile.

The place smells ... strongly of rot and weirdness.  Its doesn't smell
bad, per se.  Just very very weird.  Have the party make DC 6 CON
saves to see if anyone has an allergic reaction.  Anyone who passes is
fine.  Anyone who fails will have trouble staying in the building.
That will not preclude getting a parasite, but it will preclude being
a party to the conversation with Oon For.

The most prominent feature when the party walks in is the 6 foot tall
stack of at least 12 rings.  Could be thirteen or fourteen depending
on how deep the mulch covering the entire floor is.  This is a Oon
For.  Oon For currently is not on top of its ambulatory ring, so it
cannot move from it's spot about 5 feet from the catwalk.  It has a
weird manipulation ring which has three 10 foot long, spindly, woody,
multi-jointed arms that end in a sort of six-finger claw from a claw
machine.   One arm is folded up against its stack, the other two are
manipulating things under the surface of the mulch.  At the top of the
stack is a small ring with lots of eyeballs.

A closer look around the room will show lots of small rings wriggling
around in the mulch.  These are all solitary rings, not actual traeki.

From the perspective of the party, Oon For is a serious weirdo.  His
behavior should be strange and slightly off-putting, although  Anya
will be completely comfortable with everything it says and does.

Oon For is happy to provide language worm parasites to the party.  It
has so expectation of payment, simply happy to provide the service.
But it would be interested in sampling some genetic material from the
party.  Allow the players to be creative about how they provide it.

When the first member of the party assents to receiving a parasite,
Oon For will rummage around in the mulch, eventually pulling out a
mid-sized ring, which it lodges into the middle of its stack.  This
involves lots of weird squishing noises followed by about 30 seconds
of silence.  After that, the new ring then protrudes a sort of
pseudo-pod covered in thick stubby hair at the end.  When inserting
the worm in the player's ear canal, it rests this pseudo-pod on the
PCs cheek to monitor the insertion process.

.. admonition:: Roll playing Oon For and Anya

   The worm is an unvarnished positive.  The are **no** ill effects of
   having the worm.  The linguistic abilities granted are 100 percent
   positive.  

   The process, however, is meant to be a weird and uncomfortable and
   suspicious as possible for the players.  The grosser the process,
   the better!


