Introducing A Distant Moon to the DM
====================================

Overview
--------

Our heroes are a group of plucky, level 8 adventurers.  They've seen
it all, they've done it all.  They're not looking for a job clearing
gobbos out of a barn or rescuing the Duke's daughter from the centaurs
down the road.  Nope!  Our gang is looking for a real challenge.

Well, word of so many seasoned adventurers being in town all at the
same time has reached the ears of the elders of the town of Riverun.
Each hero have been contacted by a deputy assistant clerk in the
office of Lady Galstott, the bad-ass ex-adventurer who is the Lady
Mayor of this town.  Each has been asked to appear at fourth bell at
the Sanctuary of Lathander in the Hilltop district for an exciting and
lucrative job opportunity for someone of their very particular skill
set.

.. note::
   Riverun is a town on a hilltop at the bend in a river that I use as
   the starting point for my one-shot games.  Yes, I know that that's
   the name of a city in Game of Thrones.  My players tell me that all
   the time.  I forgot!  OK?!  

   You don't have to start in Riverun.  You can start anywhere.  The
   heroes aren't going to be staying in town for very long anyway.

Arriving at the Sanctuary, the heroes find the Lady Galstott along
with several of the other civil and religious leaders of town.  They
are told a story of a long, long ago when members of a Cult of
Loviatar managed to assemble a Godslayer Construct (`see the relevant
creature from one of the Kobold Press books`) and attempted to use it
to assassinate Lathander.

The Godslayer was sent forth.  A massive, cosmic, Thanos-style battle
happened.  Lathander was pressed hard, but rallied and banished the
Godslayer from our world.  If any mortal knew where the Godslayer
went, that knowledge is lost to the mists of time.

In recent decades, rumors have been spreading about the location of
the damaged Godslayer.  Word is that some shadowy group has been
working on repairing the Godslayer in hopes of bringing it back to our
world for some nefarious purpose.  Is this the work of a revived
Loviatar cult?  Is there any truth to whispers of an Underdark
connection?  Could Orcus somehow be adding it to his abyssal undead
army?  Who knows?

.. note::
   My answer is that a group of Drow are working on some Lolth-related
   scheme.  Do you have a favorite baddie?  Great!  Replace the
   arcanic scientists in the last chapter with whatever works in your
   world. 

In this adventure, the heroes will be transported to strange, alien
world populated in part by creatures from normal D&D sources and in
part by creatures inspired by (i.e. swiped from) from David Brin's
Uplift Storm series.

The heroes will traverse a strangle landscape navigating unusual
hazards and dealing with tricky social situations.  In the end, they
will discover the volcano lair of the Drow arcanic scientists working
to revive the deactivated Godslayer.


Broad Story Outline
-------------------


:Chapter 1: Meet town and church leaders in Riverun. Go to basement of
	    some church, step through portal. Step onto a mountain top
	    into a circle of menhirs.  This is a weird place'

:Chapter 2: Go to the river and hire the river boat.

:Chapter 3: Go to the village and meet the dream walker.

:Chapter 4: Take the train to the end of the line.

:Chapter 5: Travel through the forest to the sage's tower.

:Chapter 6: Ascend the tower and talk to the sage.

:Chapter 7: Travel to the volcano and deal with the Godslayer Construct.


